hi everybody how's it going today that
was those were three incredible talks
thank you so much to Ari colani and to
Cade um I'm going to bring a couple of
folks up on stage right now I'm really
excited to welcome back colani Nole
Caitlyn Donovan Roxy shade um and my is
a suton um this panel is called dweb for
creators um and we're going to talk
about some of the reasons why you might
have noticed in our exhibition in the
front we have a ton of works that
mention dweb that talk about the
blockchain um and we really felt that
these would illustrate and emphasize the
kind of critical points that we are
making we are running behind so I'm not
going to do link the intros for everyone
um but Roxy show had uh is a creative
producer working with us a great arean
she helped to produce this Festival um
and she's also been working on our dweb
curriculum for creators supported by the
filecoin foundation for the
decentralized web next to her is Caitlyn
Donan who social impact manager is that
the right program manager at the
filecoin foundation for the
decentralized web and has been such a
fantastic collaborator and partner for
us as we've been working on this project
you just heard from colani Nicole who is
a great mentor and collaborator of mine
and so I'm thrilled to share space with
her here on stage and my ishika Sutton
who is an organizer a writer and an
editor um and you can see their work in
the gallery it's called compost and it's
a decentralized magazine and we're going
to talk a little bit more about that
today oh of course and how could I
forget we also have our virtual speakers
we have Regina harani who is associate
curator at Museum of the moving image
and also a time-based media conservator
as well as artist Sarah Grant thank you
everyone so very much for being
here we thought that I thought that to
kick things off you know we've been
throwing around this term dweb a lot um
and I think that that means a lot of
different things to different people
we've talked about crypto we've talked
about distributed systems we've talked
about Open Access um and I'd love to
hand it over to ma to kick us off to
maybe give us a little bit of an
overview and a little bit of some
background on what this is as we you
know start and ground our conversation
sure can you hear me okay um great so
this term dweb um has been floating
around for several years for a long time
actually um since the beginning of the
web the principle of
decentralizing um our networks internet
um has been embedded from the beginning
and so uh we're only just seeing this
kind of resurgence of this principle I
would say I guess since 2015 2016 or so
um particularly with the uh creation and
use of blockchain Technologies um and so
that was kind of the beginning of the
conversation um and I would say that one
of the big kind of moments I would say
that shap that started to shape this
term dweb was um the internet archive um
who I work for uh in terms of organizing
our dweb projects um shout out Wendy
who's in the audience from internet
archive um and uh the first dweb summit
was in 2016 at the internet AR arive and
it was this moment of bringing together
um many technologists that were thinking
about how to decentralize our networks
um and um it was um kind of incredible
to see the energy around thinking about
how we
distribute uh Network infrastructure and
power um and that was kind of the
kickoff point and then there was another
Summit in 2018 at the San Francisco mint
um in s here um and it's kind of I would
also say it evolved through the
evolution of the event itself where um
it went from this kind of like um nice
sort of community event at the internet
archive to then kind of a more formal I
would say more uh serious conference
like event um about dweb was and then we
went kind of completely 180 and decided
to uh create this Camp called D Web Camp
um in 2019 um and we've uh subsequently
had um two more so we've had three total
um and and uh what it's really been
about is to think about uh how we can
decentralize power over our Network
infrastructure and that looks very
different based on what level of the
network stack you're looking at so you
know we um really emphasize the
importance of course of things like
Community networks and making sure that
last mile infrastructure and internet
access and net access is really uh
preserved and protected to um to things
like platform coop s and platforms and
apps that are owned and built and
designed with communities whether that's
with workers and users or both um to
also blockchain Technologies um and so
we kind of bring a lot of things under
this umbrella term dweb and I think in
that we're able to kind of have a lot of
fruitful conversations about what it is
to to decentralize power and control of
our Network infrastructure absolutely
and I think that you know just you know
obviously I think the stakes are quite
High when we're talking about
decentralizing power um and that's such
a critical issue to all of us all around
the world today um I was wondering if
you know May and please jump in Sarah
and Roxy as well I'd love to hear you
know as we again just as we start this
conversation I'd love to hear from an
artist perspective why this is important
to you or what are the stakes for the
artists in in this
scenario is this okay good um yeah so I
think that for
the audience who's here most of you just
saw colani give a talk and uh I think
colani is a really great example because
at colani you're both a technologist and
a cultural producer and I would also
consider you an artist um and so even
though we we work with a lot of artists
and you're I think a a prime example of
someone who really understands the
landscape and because you understand the
landscape you can help affect it you can
get creative about it you can support it
and you can create other um experiments
uh for supporting
uh other creators who are in the space
to be able to shift the way that our
communities relate to the technology and
the potential uh of supporting
preserving cultural infrastructure
that's your project right is one of the
big things that you're doing and I think
for artists in general and you know
right now the we'll talk a little bit
more about this but the curriculum for
creators is really focused on both
artists and arts workers so this is
archists and gallerists and and
different cultural producers and even
artist rights activists and the dweb
space um if you haven't gone through the
exhibition this the exhibition is really
giving people an example an experience
of of why artists and artists can help
make visible some of the flows of uh
data if there you know what does it mean
if if we are not um decentralizing Power
and how might the dweb create an
opportunity for a more decentralized web
or some of it I think Sarah maybe can
speak to um when it comes to communities
and ma can also speak to this as well uh
artists uh who are kind of working as
cultural organizers as well they're
they're people who can reimagine how we
can distribute and work together and by
giving artists the potential of having a
deep time and deep space with
understanding decentralization they can
help to weave some of these into their
artworks and then thus impact
understanding and impact culture and
ideally uh kind of get in at the base
level of some of these Technologies to
be able to uh shift the way that they
are being
designed absolutely I'd love to call on
Sarah to to jump in here I know it's
super late where you are Sarah and we're
running behind so we appreciate you
being up in
here all good no thanks for calling me
in um so um yeah I'm really glad that
we're talking about decentralized web um
in a broader context because like my
mentioned um it encompasses a lot of
different Technologies and applications
Beyond how I think we've been um uh
lately most um commonly hearing about
this term use the context of crypto so
from my perspective I've been working
with the centralized web um from a a a
uh Community activist and artistic um um
point of view I guess so for example um
there is one project that I've been
working on called furat tropica with my
collaborator Juan Pablo Garcia Sosa from
Bata um he wanted to he had this Vision
to design a decentralized peer-to-peer
Network that's stretched um around the
tropical belt so that um that basically
allowed people who lived within the
tropics to have a network that was
designed and basically built um for
for them um to share culture art um
content in a way to basically
reenter the um the culture that existed
on that particular Network back onto the
tropics as opposed to importing um
technology and also culture from the
north down to the so-called Global South
so that's one example um of a project
that I'm been very honored to be invited
into to be a part of
um yeah and and you know I guess the
other thing I'd like to say about it is
indeed like um also like my like my
mentioned depending on where you're
looking at the protocol stack there are
different ways for artists and community
members and activists to get involved in
decentralized web
um either from a lower level you know
where you learn how to set up your own
infrastructure your own networks your
own web servers um self-hosted file
servers so on and so forth or from a
more top level application Level just
thinking about what kinds of
applications could be created and
deployed and um also managed from a
community perspective in a way that does
what we're talking about um creating
opportunities to decentralize not just
um power and control in terms of saying
what kind of content gets shared who
gets access to it but
also um on a lower level again at the
hardware level and the infrastructure
level um decentralizing control over
that so that there's not one single
point of um
control that could be switched off and
you know kill access to this
infrastructure and and its content but
it's distributed across a group of
people who are self-hosting maybe in
their own homes can uh community
centers so on so hopefully
that definitely
perspective yeah yeah definitely answers
the question I mean what we've heard so
far is that at least from an artist
perspective we're seeing decentralized
web being a vehicle for distribution of
power increased agency of individual
actors um and so much more and you know
I'd like to you know shifting away from
a specifically an artist perspective I'd
love to call on Caitlyn from filecoin
Foundation because it's just such
incredible work that you're doing an
incredible work that you're supporting
and it just means so much that you're
supporting us and that you're here and
I'd love to hear a little bit um from
your perspective and from you know the
filecoin foundation's perspective on why
these initi like why like what are your
stakes in this and how do you view um
the future of the decentralized web as
being you know relevant and important of
critical importance for for all of
us sure so at uh filecoin foundation for
the decentralized web or ffdw for short
uh we our core mission is to create and
support better technology to preserve
Humanity's most important information
and that encompasses a lot of different
facets of uh Rich data cultural
artifacts artistic Works scientific
research you name it put it in the
bucket um and it's a it's a big task
right um with this particular project
we're so excited because my sort of
spoke to the principles or the values of
decentralization and we see so much
alignment between the artistic community
and the dweb movement when it comes to
autonomy
self-expression uh freedom of expression
and uh
resiliency and so for us this seemed
like the right fit additionally like we
see the the dweb movement or
decentralization as this open Digital
Commons that requires full participation
for knowledge sharing and idea sharing
and that the artistic community's voice
is so critical to that so not only do we
think it's important
to empower artists with tools and
knowledge about how to use decentralized
Technologies we're hoping artists will
come join the fold of the dweb movement
to spread visibility and awareness to
what a better internet could look like
for all members of society to
participate and benefit from the
internet absolutely and that to me is
one of the critical key points here is
that like dweb is not just for artists
who are experimenting with with things
in a conceptual way or coders who are
building tooling it's so it encompasses
so much more and it relates to how all
of us communicate and connect across the
pathways that have clearly become the
most important ones for the future of
our society the current state of our
society um I'd love to hear now from
Regina up on state up uh on screen
behind me um from an Institutional and a
conservation perspective I'm wondering
how you are thinking about the stakes
that are involved here I know you have
lots of thoughts on this um so I'll let
you kind of jump in wherever you feel uh
inspired there's so much to say as you
mentioned um I like what was just said
about how it's not just for artists it's
for anybody who cares about data of
course I'm thinking about this often
from a preservation perspective um for
collections objects for um artist Works
in their studio and for for every
everyone right so even thinking about
the distributed storage um of websites
of you know index.html files of from an
internet archiving perspective um the
just idea of redundancy and um you may
ask more about this in the future but uh
a big part of that is also just like
widespread digital literacy I think is
really important to all of us the more
people who are empowered to understand
what decentralized web even is its
history um how they can get involved
with it um the better we're able to
preserve data artwork um anything you
can imagine General that's born digital
or digitized um in
general absolutely um and it's just
really inspiring to see the work that
you and Colonia are doing with far and
through the transfer data trust to
create practical tooling to enact these
systems of preservation and care and
Longevity um and I'm wondering if in
this I'm I'll open this up to the whole
panel um I'd let well let me back up
first I think that you know as my
mentioned the dweb camp um and the dweb
program with internet archive and great
area was so privileged to get to go and
attend and organize some sessions there
this year and one of the most to me one
of the most profound takeaways that I
heard from many people and I felt myself
was that we really need this practical
tooling like we need to be able to
educate people so that they can we can't
just talk about like what dweb will do
in the future we have to do it right we
need to set up server nodes and we need
to create these systems on a very
tangible level that requires hardware
and that requires Specialized or semi-
specialized information so you know
speaking to that I'm wondering if you
know the panel can think about some of
that tooling what does that look like
and what are some of the biggest
challenges that we face in terms of
getting there and getting people the
skills that they need in order to be
able to engage with this
technology I'd love to jump in on this
so inspired yesterday to see tayun Choy
speak about uh some of the ideas in
their work and specifically the idea
between the difference between
distribution and
decentralization and as T explained
distribution is about Equity also right
and I think there's something and and
this really happened at dweb Camp
there's something so real about
cooperation and coordination and the
human aspects of what dweb is or could
be and so we were sort of roleplaying
that or doing that with human networks
we were building new governance
structures right in the way that the
organizers were creating these care
mechanisms throughout the conference and
um I think the transfer data trust is
kind of in that space right now because
it is a prototype and an ideology and
we're starting to play with the tooling
and let me tell you the tooling doesn't
quite work yet right like there are a
lot of frictions in this technology
still but it's going to take us all
getting our hands on it and doing it
together and talking to each other about
it to actually make it work so uh I'm
that's why I'm so excited mostly about
participating in the curriculum for
creators because none of those Visions
can come into the world unless we all
have our hands on that and that
cooperation is so key to it absolutely
yeah may please yeah if I could jump in
on that too like I think in terms of the
biggest challenge for most any
organization but especially in the
sphere of technology is we focus so much
on the tooling that we don't think about
the organizational aspects of building
stewarding designing maintaining the
infrastructure and that's all humans all
the way down you know and so if you
think about like the fact that most
corporations um even the best ones you
know that said that they were going to
save the world be the be the you know
Network infrastructure for the world all
these organizations had to trade away
these goals for money for profit um and
that's a that's a human issue it's not
because the technology doesn't work it's
not because like you know you're putting
you're storing the data in the wrong
place or anything like that it's
actually because the the DNA of the
organization is flawed and so um like I
think for for us at dweb Camp it's like
kind of and I don't want to say too much
cuz I'm going to give a talk about this
but um but it is about like um creating
this kind of like fertile soil of like
trust and care and play so then people
can find collaborators that they want to
work with that they trust that you can
have Frank conversations about getting
paid about you know decision- making
about who you want to participate in
your design process like all those
things are really really critical to get
right and um and so you know when I hear
about your project like it's okay that
the tool isn't perfect yet like if you
have have a really strong relationship
and you have good communication you're
going to get there you know and so um
and so for us like dweb Camp is like
allowing people to find each other who
kind of in general um come from a
specific like principled place which is
what the D principles are about and then
having that be kind of like the the the
I don't know like the playground for
then if you show up at D Web Camp or any
of our events you can be like oh I you
know Baseline understand this person
cares about similar things and then can
like connect on that from that starting
point we don't have to like start from
the point of you know um do I do I seem
human to you you know are you going to
interrupt me in the conversation or you
know all these things that make it
really hard to do anything in in a
normal organization so um so I think
that that's really part of the whole
dweb ethos for me absolutely um going
you know I want to answer oh yeah please
please I think to what Ma was saying um
and also talk more about um transfer
Data Trust as an example like frankness
transparency is really important here
like how are we going to get this done
um I I really believe in giving um say
artists in that kind of ecosystem I use
the word ecosystem a lot we're talking
about collaboration um the tools to
understand what technical aspects have
to go into um decentralized web you know
at least getting everybody on the same
page but then some artists are going to
choose to get their hands dirty and be
directly involved with something like a
NAS drive and others will want to rely
on conservators and that ecosystem of
Health to actually manage um their
assets um but giving them the choice and
first starting with being able to all
speak the same language is really
important absolutely and I mean I think
to me uh something that is a really
clear both case study and like benefit
of thinking about the decentralized web
is the community organization aspect
which I know which I know Sarah you're
very involved in in your work and I'm
wondering if you can speak a little bit
to the tooling around that kind of
organization any positives any
challenges um and how you've been kind
of grappling with these you know
emerging
tools yeah um yeah thank you I I feel
very strongly about this actually um
also as a teacher myself um uh from
different levels from running workshops
uh from our studio here in Berlin um to
teaching at University level mostly in
art schools and working with communities
one of the things that's most important
to me is um helping helping people feel
comfortable and also confident that they
can work with these Technologies and
with this tooling even if they are you
know have never done it before or have
no background in engineering um it's
it's really important I mean and also
this comes from a very personal place as
well because I studied art in undergrad
and in graduate school um so I I
selftaught myself how to work with this
uh you know with like um with like the
network stack and and with uh
programming so I understand how
frustrating and discouraging that can be
um especially I mean for whatever
whatever
strange uh reason I was obsessed enough
with the technology to keep going and
wanting to know how it works but I
appreciate that not everybody has time
or that kind of obsession maybe to like
figure out how to set up their own
network or web server
um or so on so anyway yeah it's it's I
think it's really important to meet
people where they're at and to um you
know give you know like treat everybody
like they have the potential or most
likely do have the potential if they if
they want to um learn how these things
work and um and just to demystify how
some of these things work and to show
them that you know yes maybe to maintain
a network that's going to cover you know
an entire corporate building that is
quite a task but to run like a network
for your building or for your event um
it's it it's not it like the the entry
point to that is not as intimidating you
know as as one might think so anyway
yeah I you know whether it's coming from
whether it's wanting to to know how to
work with these Technologies as an
artist or Community leader um it's
pretty much all the same approach I mean
it of course when you get down to
details there are different kinds of
people that have different priorities
and what they want to get out of it but
I mean step one is just meeting people
where they're at and just um yeah just
showing people that they can do these
things you know they can work with these
Technologies and understand them and
teaching to that belief absolutely and
that totally connects to the dweb
curriculum which I'm going to talk I'm
going to ask you Roxy about in just a
moment but before we get there um I'd
love to hear a little bit more from
Regina on the conservation portion
because I think this is really important
um and you know
Regina we know the stakes I think but
I'd love for you to talk a little bit
about some of the like specific
challenges some of the material
challenges and some of the ways that you
as a conservator of time-based media and
a consultant um you know with many
different folks how are you grappling
with this and what are some of the again
opportunities and challenges that you
face that's a big question I'm going to
try to keep it short well somehow
answering all that um but you know uh
back going back to even 2018 I was with
a few different people trying to
convince nonprofit institutions to have
an interest in decentralized
Technologies for storage and redundancy
of this data and finally now they're
coming around to an interest in it but a
a point I really want to make is that
decentralization decentralized web is
nowhere near the first step of the
process of forign digit digal and and
digitized asset archiving for artwork um
it it I've been saying a lot recently
because I'm realizing how important it
is to to not just um talk about the
decentralized web that what you put into
it is as important as what you get out
of it so there's so many steps um
resources resource intensive steps um
with the artist even when they're first
conceptualizing their work around
documentation that um and thinking about
like the archival files the what I call
Web copies exhibition copies writing a
manual sitting down with an artist or
the artist themselves thinking about
technical artist questionnaire questions
so that they can think about things like
um the expected obsolescence of these
objects because um software is changing
constantly and that's true for the
underlying um compilation of
decentralized web itself right when we
talk about like fvm and things like that
they do compile down essentially to like
web assembly and things that we need to
consider like will that still be an
adopted configuration in the future
that's maybe a little too like Galaxy
brain about it but um in the but in the
uh like sense of the artwork itself like
there's so much um preventive work you
have to do before you even upload it to
these systems um and then once they're
in these systems
making sure you're doing continued
fixity checks and um that everybody's
like on the same page um so this is a
very active process it's never going to
be a set it and forget it process it's a
great um we I almost don't even want to
call it a solution it's a great
advancement in um the system of
care hopefully that answers the question
I want to add one thing on that that
Regina and I have been talking about for
a long time and kind of brainstorming
around which is how can we automate
networks that might fund that kind of
care or that might support or mutually
support that kind of care so not the
labor itself that is always going to be
human onetoone not scalable a
relationship of care but maybe there's a
way to connect more artists to that kind
of methodology or find efficiencies by
bringing together different works that
need similar treatments for example so
we're we're kind of hypothesizing around
how the ideologies of decentralization
can support that kind of very
specialized human
labor absolutely thank you
colani
the um I'd love you know this this is so
rich and I think that you know I'm
hearing you know a few things are coming
up over and over again I'm hearing I'm
hearing I'm not hearing this word but
I'm hearing agency I'm Hearing Care um
and I'm hearing education and you know
all these are kind of things that are
swirling around this topic of dweb and
we've got a lot of leg work to do in
order to get there of course um but
zooming out from you know this
conversation Caitlyn you know the work
that the file coin foundation for the
decentralized web does is so much
broader than like one curriculum or one
project and I'd love to hear a little
bit more about some of the other things
that you're supporting just to give the
audience a sense of really like more of
the scope of of this work absolutely it
was so interesting actually hearing
about like how you are caring for
different works because we are actually
partnering with some Glam institutions
so galleries archives libraries and
museums to help preserve their uh
archives and collections on
decentralized storage and so uh there
are a couple Bay Bay Area based
organizations we partner with one we
mentioned already is internet archive on
a democracy's library project which is
helping to collect and curate um
government documents research Etc and
make it accessible um and then we also
are working with prelinger archive which
is a really wonderful magical project
that is taking one-of-a-kind rare uh
archival film footage and digitizing it
and then they are going to hopefully uh
upload it into a decentralized
repository and make it accessible for
all and so thinking through the metadata
what's important to upload with that is
very interesting to be learning about um
from a program manager non-technical non
uh archive perspective um just coming
into this fresh and then within
education I think it's so interesting
because we have to meet everyone at a
different Baseline depending on the the
sector and we're trying to take an
interdisciplinary approach to bring all
players into the field um so we're
working with uh future lawyers and
policy makers on an education program at
blockchain Law Center for social good at
University of San Francisco School of
Law and so that's been really
interesting to see like the the legal
questions that come up about
decentralization and then on the other
side of things we're working with tech
soup that um is a wonderful nonprofit
bringing technology to other nonprofits
on the accelerating makers program
and that one's fun because it is all
about Community um driven events that
brings together Civil Society
organizations nonprofits um funders and
makers together to sort of explore and
experiment with what sort of
decentralized Technologies and tooling
will help support Mission specific needs
for
nonprofits so I don't know if that helps
give you a peek into the different
absolutely what a rich Peak I mean we
can again like I think it's so critical
to underscore that this is not we're
creating a a curriculum for creators and
we are an Arts organization here but
this is not relegated to us this is very
important for everyone um and you know
colani we've talked about this a number
of times like how hilarious is it that
the art World kind of came into this
technology as like the first test user
we're always like last and it's so it's
just interesting to be first this time
um you know we've been talking about it
a lot but I think it's time to dig into
that curriculum and what it looks like a
little bit more because we're really
excited to share it with you um Roxy
you've been working super hard over the
last year plus on this program and so
I'd love to if you could I'd love it if
you could give us a little bit of an
outline maybe first of some of the goals
of that curriculum and then we'll get
into some of the process questions thank
you Wade I wish it had been a whole year
say the last six months um but I know
that it's been uh in development for
longer than I was able to pick it up uh
just a little bit of background about me
um in this project uh and for gry area
I'm the creative producer but I have a
background as an artist also a
regenerative designer and I work a lot
in kind of the intersection of Art and
experience to catalyze a more
regenerative culture and regenerative
planet and education being a really big
core part of that the word educate is
rooted in EduCare which means to draw
forth and the
decentralized uh the the curriculum for
uh dweb for creators we're thinking a
lot about how we are drawing forth um
and the sovereignty that we've been
discussing inside of this curriculum uh
and just inside of the the movement of
dweb is really important uh helping
people understand that they have agency
and really look at the ways that they
maybe haven't recognized the the places
that they don't uh and so the curriculum
has has been one of the things that's
been discussed a little bit in the last
few minutes is around meeting people
where they're at and so in the process
of developing the curriculum we did this
really interesting uh Persona case study
and we looked at okay what are like
eight different types of personas who
are coming from the lens of community
who are coming from the lens of a
gallerist or a curator or someone who's
trying to conserve and protect cultural
data or is trying to explore what is the
how is the medium maybe the message in
this space um and so from from that
perspective after doing a really big
analysis Regina and I was really special
because coming into this process it's as
much uh of an opportunity for me to help
produce it as it also is to help
co-design it and to design a process for
us all and the first thing that we did
was we mapped the ecosystem we mapped
the broad Strokes of what is what does
um the decentralized web space actually
entail and so it got really wide it's a
very wide space and whenever we were
thinking about all of the different
potential learning outcomes what was
really important was to say okay well
who is this for and so we did this
really interesting series of design
Sprints and looked at all of these
different personas and when we were
looking at these different personas we
were able to kind of pattern recognize
the different types of subjects that
were the most important to level the
playing ground and so I can share a
little bit more specifically about what
and how um that's taking shape and I
will say that structurally the the
curriculum there's two main parts uh one
of them is that its intention is for it
to be open source so uh we have a
two-year Grant from the filecoin
foundation from the decentralized web
it's so generous because that means we
get to create uh test iterate and
improve so the open source version um is
a really really core and critical part
of this because part of the deep dream
is that it lives beyond we are you we're
creating assets uh to support people
digging in however deep they want to go
and then if they want to take a part of
it and expand it or change it that's
really really key another part of it is
that um we're going to host an intensive
so come January of next year we'll
launch the Intensive here at greay area
this will probably be about an 8-week
intensive for folks who really want to
have a more facilitated experience um
but the actual experience for the open
source curriculum and also the way that
we're intending to design the Intensive
is decentralized and nonlinear this is
holding on to the principle of saying we
want people to be able to kind of create
their own Learning Journey although we
can create and offer these different
suggested um Pathways to understanding
different parts of what it means uh to
orient to this space um but that kind of
nonlinear uh adaptive part of it is
really important from like a structural
perspective uh another part of it is
that it's self-modifying and adaptive so
even after 2 years the space is evolving
so rapidly so we want to make sure that
we design it in a way that it can
continue to evolve with the input of the
community and the people who are using
it um the methodologies that are kind of
embedded within it are a combination of
case studies Hands-On project
opportunities uh we've been talking
about getting people's hands in the code
so there's like basic command line
literacy um different kinds of things
like a shared Communication channel that
people can opt into the section that
developing or they're working inside of
so that they can meet with other peers
in that space and at that point in there
what we're calling a Choose Your Own
Adventure um curriculum Style with these
like different learning Journeys and
from doing this uh Persona kind of
overview after looking at the whole
landscape of all of our deepest dreams
of what we want people to learn the
distillation kind of wrapped up into
about I think it's four main categories
right now um one is uh dweb cultural
foundations and content context so here
we'll talk about the foundational dweb
history and art history the Lexicon so
kind of understanding the language and
vocabulary uh the landscape the full
landscape and options and different
tools that are present different
partners this is where it's really
exciting to be with the filecoin
foundation for the decentralized web
because there's an entire ecosystem and
then also through things like uh dweb
Camp there's a huge community of people
who are working across the space and
really understanding ways to to be able
to make that visible so that people can
um cross-pollinate and here at gr area
we talk a lot about anti-disciplinary
work and so really breaking up those
different Bridges um so that people can
kind of work together uh the philosophy
so M touched on this and I'm sure we'll
touch on this more in their talk and a
little bit but understanding the
philosophy of dweb from both a community
non-technical and social perspective the
next part is about the value so this is
about both sovereignty and
decolonization the principles um and
what it actually means to be
decentralized whether or not it really
results in the decentralized power and
acknowledging that that's not always the
case and compensation models um and then
the the Third Kind of component is
around critical practice so what tools
uh can can and what tools ideas can
actually do versus what they cannot so
how to distinguish a false promise or
overly utopian idea this is actually
something Sarah friend who's another
core part of the design um educational
is on Vie in the gallery in our
exhibition so definitely check that out
too yeah this is a you know really big
point from her around really
understanding um the the potential
versus the promise and really being able
to pull that apart so people can look at
it and make those decisions um on their
own as they're learning as artists the
medium is the message so these like how
the principles that the dweb tools
embody um can be relevant to Artistic
practice um speculative design and
expanding the perceived possible Futures
because of the dweb and kind of critical
practice orientation around
decentralized Tech and AI um and
decentralized storage and kind of the
last main piece uh right now in the
distillation of doing all of these
Persona case studies and figuring out
what are the main things that would be
most important for people to learn um is
around all of this preventative
documentation and uh organizing
practices for production and versioning
and supplements and artworks new storage
and Care protocols I think even if
you've been here today and you've gotten
to hear about how vulnerable some of our
cultural data is not everyone even
recognizes that so learning about that
and then learning how you can be a part
of protecting and restoring it in things
like fora where you you can you know
look at and build and test these
networks to preserve and support
cultural um data and just Tech literacy
and how to interact with the the
interfaces related to decentralization
um governance and Cooperative ownership
and cross in institutional tooling so
those are like the four main buckets
some of the things inside of them the
different kind of Arc of how that would
get digested both from a philosophy and
practice perspective and um and all of
that has come from all of these
incredible co-designers and educators
are you sure this is all going to fit
in8 weeks holy cow rocks that's crazy um
I'm excited to take the curriculum I
will be a member of this class I will be
on the maiden voyage and I absolutely
can't wait um we have just over 5
minutes left um and so I wanted to take
a moment now to now that we kind of have
the landscape and the stakes uh laid out
in front of us um I kind of want to open
it up to all of you I know that all of
the all of the people on stage here with
me are some of the most brilliant people
that I know who have worked on so many
different facets of this what do you
want to add to the conversation what do
you wish that people knew about dweb
feel free to Jump On In
anybody I could go first um yeah I mean
I think a common thing that I think
about and one of the reasons why we made
compost and distributed press was
thinking about the fact that most people
go online to see art like if you memes
are art videos are art like it's all
like expressions and interpretations of
our reality um in creative ways and yet
artists are always never paid like
they're not paid enough ever ever ever
right I mean before the internet that's
true it's still very true um despite the
fact that um all these platforms are
making so much money none of that is
going to artists right and so that's um
for me that's why it's really important
to bring artists into this is not only
to kind of like talk about the
technology and use it as a medium which
I think is really important um because
artists are um always sensitive to what
is real what is not real what potential
is what's not and that sensitivity is
always really necessary with tools that
we think we want to use for a long time
um but it's also I think this like
economic thing too where um if we're
going to make a healthy decentralized
distributed web like artists need to be
really core to thinking about how we
make that better because that's we've
we've messed that up so much with the
current Internet so um I'm really
excited about the curriculum inviting
both this criticality and also like um
bringing them into the conversation
about how we're designing these tools
and how we Elevate and and enshrine
their interests into um the technologies
that we're building
absolutely Regina Sarah either of you
have any thoughts I know Regina has
thoughts I can see it on her
face I don't know yeah I always have
thoughts but I think I that the main
point to take away from this is the
importance of ecosystem to Echo that and
involving artists and also you know as I
said recognizing that every aspect of
what you're using that involves being
connected to the web or your computer uh
is software and that nothing is a
perfect solution but that we have to
come together to redundantly care about
the preservation of data and um continue
working on this um as long as we live
there's no perfect solution but um I'm
happy to be building this curriculum
with all of you
yeah um I I will be transparent and say
that it's it's very much past my bedtime
so I'm starting to lose my focus a bit
on what I would like to say but but I I
did want to add though that I um it's
been such a such a joy to be a part of
helping um Design This curriculum too
and and to um yeah be able to share some
of my experien is with um like what I
talked about before you
know making sure that you know all
different kinds of people who might not
normally find themselves in a place
learning about these kinds of
Technologies and how they work you know
can can find a place for themselves you
know they were curious to know how these
things work or just to at the very least
gain a vocabulary which helps you find
um people to um work with if you
yourself you know maybe don't want to
get your hands super dirty with the
hardware um yeah so it's just been great
to be a part of this process and I also
really look forward to seeing how it um
how it unfolds in
practice how about you colani any final
thoughts uh I want to think about the
very very distant future when you know
catastrophic climate change takes down
our infrastructures and those of us who
have been experimenting with it have our
data and can reconnect with each other
and reshare those cultural memories
which are so much a part of us those of
us who have created practice within
virtual spaces um I think in the more
near future I just hope we start doing
weird things online together again and
also in the real world like after this
curriculum let's have a let's have some
land parties let's do tomorrow again at
D Web Camp right like how can we
actually prototype these networks
together in these hybrid virtual
physical spaces how can we get away from
the feed such a toxic idea this Global
public Commons how can we start to
Define better spaces together and again
for me that's just looking back there's
so much in the history of the internet
that show us and remind us what those
spaces are like and so I hope that dweb
is a way back into that kind of sort of
nerd space right like you're really
getting into the affordances that are
shaping those spaces and not just giving
them over to
corporations guys we are just out of
time thank you all so much this is a
huge conversation just the beginning of
many more we'll be having here at gr
area over the coming year as this
curriculum is launched um thank you all
everyone so much for being here for
contributing to the curriculum and for
your support of this urgent program um I
first want to have the audience give a
round of applause for Sarah for staying
up past her bedtime let's give it up to
Sarah and let's give it up to our
interpreters who managed a seveners
panel with a plom thank you so much to
our
interpreters and if you have any
questions about this let's keep the
conversation going we'll be here in the
audience come talk to us thanks
everybody